Complete the `Changelog`, `Choke`, and `Combo fire` stubs (#6036)
ppy/osu-wiki: wiki/Glossary/Choke/en.md

---
tags:
  - reverse choke
---

# Choke

> A term used when a player almost obtains a full combo while playing a [beatmap](/wiki/Beatmap), but [breaks the combo](/wiki/Glossary/Combobreak) near the end. On the contrary, a **reverse choke** is when a player breaks the combo at the beginning, but holds it throughout the rest of the beatmap. In [osu!](/wiki/Game_mode/osu!) and [osu!catch](/wiki/Game_mode/osu!catch), which put emphasis on maintaining the combo, the difference in [total score](/wiki/Score) between regular and reverse chokes may be drastic, as late misses cause a player to potentially lose more score.

Reviewer: i think this is more clear

```suggestion
A term used when a player almost obtains a full combo while playing a [beatmap](/wiki/Beatmap), but [breaks combo](/wiki/Glossary/Combobreak) near the end. On the contrary, a **reverse choke** is when a player breaks combo at the beginning, but holds it throughout the rest of the beatmap. In [osu!](/wiki/Game_mode/osu!) and [osu!catch](/wiki/Game_mode/osu!catch), the difference in [total score](/wiki/Score) between regular and reverse chokes may be drastic, as late misses cause a player to potentially lose more score due to the large score multiplier from the accumulated combo.
```

> The term is also used by many other online communities to describe the same or similar events and actions. (E.g., *Super Smash Bros.* and *speedrunners*)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The term is also used by many other online communities to describe the same or similar events and actions. (E.g. [*Super Smash Bros.*](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Super_Smash_Bros.) or [*speedrunning*](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Speedrun))
```

> ## Causes of choke
> 
> The key characteristic of a choke is its randomness and inconsistent performance. This excludes regular or pattern-specific misses or [slider breaks](/wiki/Gameplay/Sliderbreak), which are usually tied to a player's level of skill, or a beatmap's design. Chokes are typically caused by excessive mental stress and nervousness during gameplay, as well as overall fatigue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Causes of chokes

The key characteristic of a choke is its randomness and inconsistent performance. This excludes regular or pattern-specific misses or [slider breaks](/wiki/Gameplay/Sliderbreak), which are usually tied to a player's skill level, or how the beatmap is constructed. Chokes are typically caused by excessive mental stress and nervousness during gameplay, as well as overall fatigue.
```
